# team20 phase1.txt
Below are instructions on how to use our web app called UAssist
1) Login screen
To log in you need to enter a username and password. Depending on who you log in
as you will be redirected to admin or student main menu. We provide a sample
student and admin login. To log in as student the username is "student1" and
password is "password1". To log in as an admin the username is "admin1" and
password is "password2". However you may wish to create your own account and can
do so on the login screen via the create account button (really straight forward to use).
If you create an account it will automatically be a student account.

2) Student version
The student version includes a schedule and check rooms feature (we may add more
features in phase2). The schedule feature lets the user enter in courses and their
respective time slots (lecture and tut times). Then the web app will take this
and output an optimized schedule for the user. As of right now the scheduling
algorithm is random but ensures there are no conflicts. The optimizing could
not be done on time but will be fully implemented in phase2. However if you
like random schedule generator then this app is perfect for you. Note: TA told
us not to focus on getting the scheduling algorithm to fully operate and this
is what we did. Check rooms is a feature that lets a user enter in a room and a time
and see if that room is being used and also displays information about the bookings
and usage of that room. The rooms are of course hardcoded. We hardcoded BA2210 so you
can try that. Students can also view and update their personal info (click the user info
button in the main menu). This is straight forward and we leave it as an exercise
for the user to figure out.

3) Admin version
The admin version is basically the same but instead of being able to optimize a
schedule the admin is able to view and manage all the users (both admin and student
accounts). We did not hardcode that many students so when viewing all the accounts
you will not see many. There are five main features or operations you can do on accounts
as an admin. The usage is really easy and you can figure out on your own. Just note
that when entering a username it is case sensative.


Good Luck (Phase1)
